DEVELOPERS.md, before:

# Freesound Developer notes

## Code layout
Where possible, use consistent formatting for file layout. In pycharm take advantage of the 
`Code`→`Optimize imports` and `Code`→`Reformat code` menu items in order to have a consistent 
code layout.

## Code documentation
We use Google-style docstrings.
You can see examples of these docstrings here: 
https://sphinxcontrib-napoleon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example_google.html

In pycharm you can set this format by choosing in Preferences `Tools`→`Python Integrated Tools` 
and change the Docstring format.

Make sure whenever possible you add type annotations to the variables, e.g.

    Args:
        param1 (int): The first parameter.

Always use a . to end sentences of a docstring. This includes argument lists 
and other lists (see the Google example linked above). Here is an example of one
of the docstrings in our code base that you can use as reference
(from `utils.test_helpers.create_user_and_sounds`):

```
"""Creates User, Sound and Pack objects useful for testing.

A counter is used to make sound names unique as well as other fields like md5 (see `sound_counter` variable).
NOTE: creating sounds requires License objects to exist in DB. Do that by making sure your test case loads
'licenses' fixture, i.e. "fixtures = ['licenses']".

Args:
    num_sounds (int): N sounds to generate.
    num_packs (int): N packs in which the sounds above will be grouped.
    user (User): user owner of the created sounds (if not provided, a new user will be created).
    count_offset (int): start counting sounds at X.
    tags (str): string of tags to be added to the sounds (all sounds will have the same tags).
    processing_state (str): processing state of the created sounds.
    moderation_state (str): moderation state of the created sounds.
    type (str): type of the sounds to be created (e.g. 'wav').

Returns:
    (Tuple(User, List[Pack], List[Sound]): 3-element tuple containing the user owning the sounds,
        a list of the packs created and a list of the sounds created.
"""
```



## Making changes
Prefer to create a pull request for all changes. This allows us to keep a record of the changes 
that were made, and allow feedback if necessary


Deployment process:
When PRs are merged, add the [merged] label to the ticket that it solves. This allows us to make a list of 
changes for release notes or other documentation. Once the release has been made, remove these labels from 
these tickets.

## Specific notes

### Custom Django permissions

If there is a need for defining custom permissions we should define them in the corresponding model's `Meta` class
as [described in the Django docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/customizing/#custom-permissions). There
is no generic model to **host** all custom permissions, but we'll add them to the most closely related model. These
permissions should then be added to a `Group` so that we can manage them properly in the Django admin. The `Group` should
be added in the [`user_groups`](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/blob/master/accounts/fixtures/user_groups.json)
fixture and then the fixture needs to be manually loaded to the database. Loading the fixture won't duplicate
groups which are already existing.


NOTE: Currently this fixture needs to be loaded manually to the database. We have plans for writing a command that will
automatically load the important fixtures (in the past Django used to do that automatically with fixtures named `initial_data`).

Currently, we only use the following custom permissions:
* `tickets.can_moderate` (in `Ticket` model, used to allow sound moderation)
* `forum.can_moderate_forum` (in `Post` model, used to allow forum moderation)
* `sounds.can_describe_in_bulk` (in `BulkUploadProgress` model, used to allow bulk upload for users who don't meet the other common requirements)

Commit message:

Re-add pks in fixtures, add missing user groups
PKs guarante that objects are not re-created when re-loading a fixture.
Hence, for fixtures that are supposed to be loaded to production as
part of a deployment step (not yet enabled) we should indicate specific
pks.

DEVELOPERS.md, after:

# Freesound Developer notes

## Code layout
Where possible, use consistent formatting for file layout. In pycharm take advantage of the 
`Code`→`Optimize imports` and `Code`→`Reformat code` menu items in order to have a consistent 
code layout.

## Code documentation
We use Google-style docstrings.
You can see examples of these docstrings here: 
https://sphinxcontrib-napoleon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example_google.html

In pycharm you can set this format by choosing in Preferences `Tools`→`Python Integrated Tools` 
and change the Docstring format.

Make sure whenever possible you add type annotations to the variables, e.g.

    Args:
        param1 (int): The first parameter.

Always use a . to end sentences of a docstring. This includes argument lists 
and other lists (see the Google example linked above). Here is an example of one
of the docstrings in our code base that you can use as reference
(from `utils.test_helpers.create_user_and_sounds`):

```
"""Creates User, Sound and Pack objects useful for testing.

A counter is used to make sound names unique as well as other fields like md5 (see `sound_counter` variable).
NOTE: creating sounds requires License objects to exist in DB. Do that by making sure your test case loads
'licenses' fixture, i.e. "fixtures = ['licenses']".

Args:
    num_sounds (int): N sounds to generate.
    num_packs (int): N packs in which the sounds above will be grouped.
    user (User): user owner of the created sounds (if not provided, a new user will be created).
    count_offset (int): start counting sounds at X.
    tags (str): string of tags to be added to the sounds (all sounds will have the same tags).
    processing_state (str): processing state of the created sounds.
    moderation_state (str): moderation state of the created sounds.
    type (str): type of the sounds to be created (e.g. 'wav').

Returns:
    (Tuple(User, List[Pack], List[Sound]): 3-element tuple containing the user owning the sounds,
        a list of the packs created and a list of the sounds created.
"""
```



## Making changes
Prefer to create a pull request for all changes. This allows us to keep a record of the changes 
that were made, and allow feedback if necessary


Deployment process:
When PRs are merged, add the [merged] label to the ticket that it solves. This allows us to make a list of 
changes for release notes or other documentation. Once the release has been made, remove these labels from 
these tickets.

## Specific notes

### Custom Django permissions

If there is a need for defining custom permissions we should define them in the corresponding model's `Meta` class
as [described in the Django docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/customizing/#custom-permissions). There
is no generic model to **host** all custom permissions, but we'll add them to the most closely related model. These
permissions should then be added to a `Group` so that we can manage them properly in the Django admin. The `Group` should
be added in the [`user_groups`](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/blob/master/accounts/fixtures/user_groups.json)
fixture and then the fixture needs to be manually loaded to the database. Loading the fixture won't duplicate
groups which are already existing if the `pk` is specified in the fixture.


NOTE: Currently this fixture needs to be loaded manually to the database. We have plans for writing a command that will
automatically load the important fixtures (in the past Django used to do that automatically with fixtures named `initial_data`).

Currently, we only use the following custom permissions:
* `tickets.can_moderate` (in `Ticket` model, used to allow sound moderation)
* `forum.can_moderate_forum` (in `Post` model, used to allow forum moderation)
* `sounds.can_describe_in_bulk` (in `BulkUploadProgress` model, used to allow bulk upload for users who don't meet the other common requirements)
