README.md, before:

![Freesound](freesound/static/bw-frontend/public/logos/logo-text.svg)

This repository contains the source code of the [Freesound](https://freesound.org) website.

Freesound is a project by the [Music Technology Group](http://www.mtg.upf.edu) (MTG), [Universitat Pompeu Fabra](http://upf.edu) (UPF).

[![Build Status](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/actions/workflows/unit-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/actions/workflows/unit-tests.yml)


## License

All the source code in this repository is licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License v3. Some of the dependencies might have their own licenses. See the [_LICENSE](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/tree/master/_LICENSE) folder for more details.


## Authors

For a list of authors please check out the [contributors](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/graphs/contributors) page.


## Development

Freesound is composed of a number of different services which can be run and orchestrated using Docker. The main service is provided by the `web` container which runs the Freesound Django application. Check out [this blog post](https://opensource.creativecommons.org/blog/entries/freesound-intro/) for some information about the Freesound technology stack. If you're going to do development on Freesound, please check the [DEVELOPERS](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/blob/master/DEVELOPERS.md) file for some guidelines.

Below are instructions for setting up a local Freesound installation for development. It is assumed that you have a working Docker installation.


### Setting up Freesound for development in 13 easy steps

1. Clone source code repository
    
       git clone git@github.com:MTG/freesound.git
       cd freesound

2. Create a directory named `freesound-data` inside the repository folder

       mkdir freesound-data

3. Download the [Freesound development data zip file](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ih3or14n-pRVZ-oB0KThp4VVEiKhAeUK/view?usp=sharing) (~20GB) and uncompress it inside `freesound-data`. You should get permission to download this file from Freesound admins. File structure should look like this:

       freesound/
       freesound/freesound-data/
       freesound/freesound-data/analysis/
       freesound/freesound-data/avatar/
       ...

4. Download [Freesound development similarity index](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ydJUUXbQZbHrva4UZd3C05wDcOXI7v1m/view?usp=sharing) and the [Freesound tag recommendation models](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1snaktMysCXdThWKkYuKWoGc_Hk2BElmz/view?usp=sharing) and place their contents under `freesound-data/similarity_index/` and `freesound-data/tag_recommendation_models` directories respectively (you'll need to create the directories). You should get permission to download these files from Freesound admins.

5. Rename `freesound/local_settings.example.py` file so you can customise Django settings if needed and create a `.env` file with your local user UID and other useful settings. These other settings include `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME` and `LOCAL_PORT_PREFIX` which can be used to allow parallell local installations running on the same machine (provided that these to variables are different in the local installations), and `FS_BIND_HOST` which you should set to `0.0.0.0` if you need to access your local Fresound services from a remote machine.

       cp freesound/local_settings.example.py freesound/local_settings.py
       echo FS_USER_ID=$(id -u) > .env
       echo COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=freesound >> .env
       echo LOCAL_PORT_PREFIX= >> .env
       echo FS_BIND_HOST= >> .env

6. [Optional] Create API credentials for the 3rd party services listed below and add them to your own `freesound/local_settings.py` file (check `settings.py` to know the config parameter names that you need to fill in):

   * Mapbox
   * Recaptcha 

7. Build the base Freesound Docker image

       make -C docker

8. Build all Docker containers. The first time you run this command can take a while as a number of Docker images need to be downloaded and things need to be installed and compiled. 

       docker-compose build

9. Download the [Freesound development database dump](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1d8_0Sa6J5tDQ3k4kvBp4zLUDuYKPUjnq/view?usp=sharing) (~50MB), run the database container and load the data into it. You should get permission to download this file from Freesound admins.

       docker-compose up -d db
       docker-compose run --rm db psql -h db -U freesound  -d freesound -f /freesound-data/db_dev_dump/freesound_dev_db-2018-01-12-anonymised.sql

10. Update database by running Django migrations

        docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py migrate

11. Create a superuser account to be able to login to the local Freesound website and to the admin site

        docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py createsuperuser

12. Run services 🎉 

        docker-compose up

  When running this command, the most important services that make Freesound work will be run locally. This includes the web application and database, but also the search engine, cache manager, queue manager and asynchronous workers including audio processing. You should be able to point your browser to `http://localhost:8000` and see the Freesound website up and running!


13. Build the search index so you can search for sounds and forum posts

        # Open a new terminal window so the services started in the previous step keep running
        docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py reindex_search_engine_sounds
        docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py reindex_search_engine_forum

After following the steps you'll have a functional Freesound installation up and running, with the most relevant services properly configured. You can run Django's shell plus command like this:

    docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py shell_plus

Because the `web` container mounts a named volume for the home folder of the user running the shell plus process, command history should be kept between container runs :)

14. (extra step) The steps above will get Freesound running, but to save resources in your local machine some non-essential services will not be started by default. If you look at the `docker-compose.yml` file, you'l see that some services are marked with the profile `analyzers` or `all`. These services include sound similarity, search results clustering and the audio analyzers. To run these services you need to explicitely tell `docker-compose` using the `--profile` (note that some services need additional configuration steps (see *Freesound analysis pipeline* section in `DEVELOPERS.md`):


        docker-compose --profile analyzers up   # To run all basic services + sound analyzers
        docker-compose --profile all up         # To run all services


### Running tests

You can run tests using the Django test runner in the `web` container like that:

    docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py test --settings=freesound.test_settings

Commit message:

Add static build notes to instructions

README.md, after:

![Freesound](freesound/static/bw-frontend/public/logos/logo-text.svg)

This repository contains the source code of the [Freesound](https://freesound.org) website.

Freesound is a project by the [Music Technology Group](http://www.mtg.upf.edu) (MTG), [Universitat Pompeu Fabra](http://upf.edu) (UPF).

[![Build Status](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/actions/workflows/unit-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/actions/workflows/unit-tests.yml)


## License

All the source code in this repository is licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License v3. Some of the dependencies might have their own licenses. See the [_LICENSE](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/tree/master/_LICENSE) folder for more details.


## Authors

For a list of authors please check out the [contributors](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/graphs/contributors) page.


## Development

Freesound is composed of a number of different services which can be run and orchestrated using Docker. The main service is provided by the `web` container which runs the Freesound Django application. Check out [this blog post](https://opensource.creativecommons.org/blog/entries/freesound-intro/) for some information about the Freesound technology stack. If you're going to do development on Freesound, please check the [DEVELOPERS](https://github.com/MTG/freesound/blob/master/DEVELOPERS.md) file for some guidelines.

Below are instructions for setting up a local Freesound installation for development. It is assumed that you have a working Docker installation. Note that these instructions have on been tested on Linux and macOS, but might not work on Windows.


### Setting up Freesound for development in 13 easy steps

1. Clone source code repository
    
       git clone git@github.com:MTG/freesound.git
       cd freesound

2. Create a directory named `freesound-data` inside the repository folder

       mkdir freesound-data

3. Download the [Freesound development data zip file](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ih3or14n-pRVZ-oB0KThp4VVEiKhAeUK/view?usp=sharing) (~20GB) and uncompress it inside `freesound-data`. You should get permission to download this file from Freesound admins. File structure should look like this:

       freesound/
       freesound/freesound-data/
       freesound/freesound-data/analysis/
       freesound/freesound-data/avatar/
       ...

4. Download [Freesound development similarity index](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ydJUUXbQZbHrva4UZd3C05wDcOXI7v1m/view?usp=sharing) and the [Freesound tag recommendation models](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1snaktMysCXdThWKkYuKWoGc_Hk2BElmz/view?usp=sharing) and place their contents under `freesound-data/similarity_index/` and `freesound-data/tag_recommendation_models` directories respectively (you'll need to create the directories). You should get permission to download these files from Freesound admins.

5. Rename `freesound/local_settings.example.py` file so you can customise Django settings if needed and create a `.env` file with your local user UID and other useful settings. These other settings include `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME` and `LOCAL_PORT_PREFIX` which can be used to allow parallell local installations running on the same machine (provided that these to variables are different in the local installations), and `FS_BIND_HOST` which you should set to `0.0.0.0` if you need to access your local Fresound services from a remote machine.

       cp freesound/local_settings.example.py freesound/local_settings.py
       echo FS_USER_ID=$(id -u) > .env
       echo COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=freesound >> .env
       echo LOCAL_PORT_PREFIX= >> .env
       echo FS_BIND_HOST= >> .env

6. [Optional] Create API credentials for the 3rd party services listed below and add them to your own `freesound/local_settings.py` file (check `settings.py` to know the config parameter names that you need to fill in):

   * Mapbox
   * Recaptcha 

7. Build the base Freesound Docker image

       make -C docker

8. Build all Docker containers. The first time you run this command can take a while as a number of Docker images need to be downloaded and things need to be installed and compiled. 

       docker-compose build

9. Download the [Freesound development database dump](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1d8_0Sa6J5tDQ3k4kvBp4zLUDuYKPUjnq/view?usp=sharing) (~50MB), run the database container and load the data into it. You should get permission to download this file from Freesound admins.

       docker-compose up -d db
       docker-compose run --rm db psql -h db -U freesound  -d freesound -f /freesound-data/db_dev_dump/freesound_dev_db-2018-01-12-anonymised.sql

10. Update database by running Django migrations

       docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py migrate

11. Create a superuser account to be able to login to the local Freesound website and to the admin site

       docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py createsuperuser

12. Install static build dependencies

       docker-compose run --rm web npm install --force

13. Build static files. Note that this step will need to be re-run everytime there are changes in Freesound's static code (JS, CSS and static media files).

       docker-compose run --rm web npm run build

14. Run services 🎉 

        docker-compose up

  When running this command, the most important services that make Freesound work will be run locally. This includes the web application and database, but also the search engine, cache manager, queue manager and asynchronous workers including audio processing. You should be able to point your browser to `http://localhost:8000` and see the Freesound website up and running!


15. Build the search index so you can search for sounds and forum posts

        # Open a new terminal window so the services started in the previous step keep running
        docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py reindex_search_engine_sounds
        docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py reindex_search_engine_forum

After following the steps you'll have a functional Freesound installation up and running, with the most relevant services properly configured. You can run Django's shell plus command like this:

    docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py shell_plus

Because the `web` container mounts a named volume for the home folder of the user running the shell plus process, command history should be kept between container runs :)

16. (extra step) The steps above will get Freesound running, but to save resources in your local machine some non-essential services will not be started by default. If you look at the `docker-compose.yml` file, you'l see that some services are marked with the profile `analyzers` or `all`. These services include sound similarity, search results clustering and the audio analyzers. To run these services you need to explicitely tell `docker-compose` using the `--profile` (note that some services need additional configuration steps (see *Freesound analysis pipeline* section in `DEVELOPERS.md`):


        docker-compose --profile analyzers up   # To run all basic services + sound analyzers
        docker-compose --profile all up         # To run all services


### Running tests

You can run tests using the Django test runner in the `web` container like that:

    docker-compose run --rm web python manage.py test --settings=freesound.test_settings
